Objective:  
Develop an Android mobile application that interacts with a REST API to manage and 
display geographic entities. The app should allow users to create, edit, and view entities on 
a map centered on Bangladesh. Each entity will have an ID, title, latitude, longitude, and 
image.  

REST API Details:  
The provided REST API enables you to interact with the SQLite database and perform 
CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on entities. 

Base URL:  
https://labs.anontech.info/cse489/t3/api.php 

API JSON output format:  
{"id":1,"title":"Place 1","lat":23.8103,"lon":90.4125,"image":"images\/image1.jpg"},{"id":2,"title":"Place 2","lat":23.8141,"lon":90.4255,"image":"images\/image2.jpg"}

Endpoints:  
1. Create Entity:  – URL: POST /api.php  – Description: Create a new entity.  – Parameters:  
• title (String): Title of the entity.  
• lat (Double): Latitude of the entity.  
• lon (Double): Longitude of the entity.  
• image (File): Image file for the entity.  – Response: JSON object containing the ID of the created entity.  
2. Retrieve Entities:  – URL: GET /api.php  – Description: Retrieve all entities.  – Response: JSON array of entities, where each entity has id, title, lat, lon,  
and image fields. 
3. Update Entity:  – URL: PUT /api.php  – Description: Update an existing entity. Use the x-www-form-encoded 
format to submit a PUT  request to update the entry.  – Parameters:  
• id (Integer): ID of the entity to update.  
• title (String): Updated title of the entity.  
• lat (Double): Updated latitude of the entity.  
• lon (Double): Updated longitude of the entity.  
• image (File, optional): Updated image file for the entity. You can skip  it, 
or you need images to use: enctype="multipart/form-data"  – Response: JSON object indicating success


Requirements:  
1. User Interface (Drawer menu with options):  – Main Screen: Display a map centered on Bangladesh with markers for each 
entity.  – Entity Form: Provide a form to create or edit an entity, including fields for the 
title, latitude, longitude, and image upload.  – Entity List: Display a list of all entities with options to edit or delete each 
entity.  
2. Functionality:  – Fetch and Display Entities: Fetch entities from the API and display them as 
markers on the map. Clicking a marker should display the entity’s title and 
image. Clicking the image will show an enlarged version of the image with 
the title. (image path should have base url as: 
https://labs.anontech.info/cse489/t3/ So having image path from api as 
"image": "images/image2.jpg" should  produce a full image path as:   
" https://labs.anontech.info/cse489/t3/images/image2.jpg"  – Create Entity: Allow users to create a new entity by filling out the form with 
current GPS information (latitude, longitude) and uploading an image (resize 
image to 800x600 before submission). Send a POST request to the API.  – Edit Entity: Allow users to edit an existing entity. Send a PUT request to the  
API. (Respect others' entries, and you should manipulate your own entry only.) 
3. Map Integration:  – Use Google Maps or OpenStreetMap for the map view.  – Ensure the map is centered on Bangladesh (latitude: 23.6850, longitude:  
90.3563) and zoomed appropriately.  
4. Error Handling:  – Handle API errors gracefully, showing appropriate messages to the user. 5. 
Testing: – Test the app thoroughly to ensure all CRUD operations work as expected and the 
map displays correctly. 


If you are stuck, ask for code Snippets in the group, no problem with it. Others can help 
with. But do not share the full project. It will not only destroy your own integrity, but also 
destroy your friend’s future. Share wisely.   
Additional Resources:  
1. Google Maps Android API 
2. OpenStreetMap Integration in Android 
3. Retrofit, A type-safe HTTP client for Android 
4. Save data in a local database using Room 
5. CameraX 
6. Photo picker 
7. Get the last known location

